# AltschoolProject
The goal of this project is to assess my understanding of object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts in Python. 
The project task is to  implementing two classes, Expense and ExpenseDatabase, to model and manage financial expenses. 

Expense class
An expense class represents an individual financial expense. It has a couple of attributes shared by all instances of the expense class.

class Expense:
    def __init__(self,id, title ,amount):
        self.id = (str(uuid.uuid4()))
        self.title = title
        self.amount = amount
        self.created_at = self.updated_at = self.get_utc_timestamp()
id- a unique identifier for the expense, generated by the uuid module
title- a string that describes the expense
amount-a numeric value that indicates the cost of the expense
created_at: DateTime object that indicates when the expense was created
updated_at: DateTime object that indicates when the expense was last update
   

Expense class methods:This refers to the different behaviours that objects will show.

Update: a method that updates the title and/or amount of the expense, if they are not None. It also sets the updated_at attribute to the current time using the datetime module.

def update(self, title=None, amount=None):
        self.title = title if title is not None else self.title
        self.amount = amount if amount is not None else self.amount
        self.updated_at = self.get_utc_timestamp()

to_dict: a method that returns a dictionary representation of the expense
         def to_dict(self):
        return {
            'id': self.id,
            'title': self.title,
            'amount': self.amount,
            'created_at': self.created_at,
            'updated_at': self.updated_at
        }

Expense Database
The Expense Database class represents a collection of  the expenses. 
This database is assigned to an empty list, a list that stores the expenses as objects of the Expense class.

class ExpenseDatabase:
    def __init__(self):
        self.expenses = []


add_expense: a method that takes an expense object as an argument and appends it to the database list. It also returns a string that confirms the addition of the expense.

def add_expense(self, expense):
        self.expenses.append(expense)

remove_expense: a method that takes an id as an argument and removes the expense object with that id from the database list. It also prints a message that confirms the removal of the expense.

 def remove_expense(self, expense_id):
        self.expenses = [exp for exp in self.expenses if exp.id != expense_id]
get_expense_by_id: a method that takes an id as an argument and returns a list of expense objects with that id from the database list. If there is no such expense, it returns an empty list.

def get_expense_by_id(self, id):
        return[expense for expense in self.database if expense.id == id]
get_expense_by_title: a method that takes a title as an argument and returns a list of expense objects with that title from the database list. If there is no such expense, it returns an empty list.

 def get_expenses_by_title(self, title):                                                         
        return [expense for expense in self.expenses if expense.title == title]


to_dict: a method that returns a list of dictionaries, each representing an expense object in the database list, using the to_dict method of the Expense class.

def to_dict(self):
        return [expense.to_dict() for expense in self.expenses]
 
How to Clone this project
This allows you to work with the entire repository, including all the files, branches and commits. You can then push your changes to the remote repository, or pull other people’s changes from the remote repository. However, you cannot contribute to the original repository unless you are a collaborator or you create a pull request.

Above the list of files, Click on the “<> Code ” button
Expense

Copy the URL under HTTPS. for this repository
Open Git Bash on your computer
Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory.
Type git clone, and then paste the URL you copied earlier.
Then Press Enter to create your local clone.


How to run the code
To run this code, here are the steps

Navigate to the file folder or directory
cd (name of the folder)
Run the name of the file
cd (name of file)
Run this line of code
Python name of script.py
If this does not return any error message, then the codes work perfectly fine.
